Newsletters: add 143 (2021-04-07) (#544)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2021-04-07-newsletter.md

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #143'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2021/04/07/
name: 2021-04-07-newsletter
slug: 2021-04-07-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter contains our regular sections with announcements
of new releases and release candidates, plus notable changes to popular
Bitcoin infrastructure projects.

## News

*No noteworthy news to report this week.*

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

- [C-Lightning 0.10.0][C-Lightning 0.10.0] is the newest major release
  of this LN node software. It contains a number of enhancements to its
  API and includes experimental support for [dual funding][topic dual
  funding].

- [BTCPay 1.0.7.2][] fixes a couple minor issues discovered after last
  week's security release.

> <!-- FIXME:harding to update tuesday -->

Reviewer: maybe https://github.com/bisq-network/bisq/releases/tag/v1.6.2

<details><summary>summary</summary><p>

```
v1.6.2

@ripcurlx ripcurlx released this 2 days ago · 89 commits to master since this release

This is a hotfix release that fixes an issue with SPV resync introduced in v1.6.0 and fixes a minor bug in the portfolio view when price nodes aren't available.

For more details please see https://github.com/bisq-network/bisq/milestone/56?closed=1

Here are the release notes from v1.6.0:
Release notes

This release ships the official beta release for the Bisq API! It has been tested on mainnet, but is still in beta, so please be careful.

Other highlights: absolute minimum deposits have now been lowered from 0.006 BTC to 0.001 BTC. Maker and taker fee transactions are now verified via mempool.space to reduce trade issues, and mediation and arbitration were improved as well. And as always, there are many bug fixes and refinements.

Also important: this release ships part of 1 of 2 for BSQ SegWit implementation. It prepares the network for handling SegWit BSQ transactions (activation block is 680300, around 2021/04/25 -- all full nodes should update to 1.6.0+ before that time). Shortly after this activation point, the wallet code (#5109) will be merged into master for testing so that the full BSQ SegWit update is shipped in the following release.
```
</p></details>

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #143'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2021/04/07/
name: 2021-04-07-newsletter
slug: 2021-04-07-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter contains our regular sections with announcements
of new releases and release candidates, plus notable changes to popular
Bitcoin infrastructure projects.

## News

*No noteworthy news to report this week.*

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

- [C-Lightning 0.10.0][C-Lightning 0.10.0] is the newest major release
  of this LN node software. It contains a number of enhancements to its
  API and includes experimental support for [dual funding][topic dual
  funding].

> - [BTCPay 1.0.7.2][] fixes a couple minor issues discovered after last

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [BTCPay 1.0.7.2][] fixes a couple of minor issues discovered after last
```

  the current eviction protection logic.

  Changes in this area are delicate, as extreme care must be taken to avoid
  opening the node to attacker-triggered network partitioning. The peer eviction
  logic selects an inbound peer to evict after filtering out (protecting) peers
  having desirable, difficult-to-forge characteristics. Onion peers have
  historically been disadvantaged under these eviction criteria due to their
  higher latency relative to IPv4 and IPv6 peers, which meant they would be
  evicted more often, degrading the diversity of peer connections and leading to
  users filing issues like [Bitcoin Core #11537][] and [Bitcoin Core #19500][].

  An initial response to the issue was made by [Bitcoin Core #19670][], which
  began reserving protected slots for localhost peers as a proxy for inbound
  onion peers. However, manually configured Tor hidden services not using
  `-bind=addr[:port]=onion` could not be detected as inbound onion connections
  until more recently with the merge of [Bitcoin Core #19991][] that added a
  specific port for them.

  With the new logic, half of the protected spots are allocated to onion peers

>   (if any), sorted by longest uptime, even if they're not longest uptime

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  (if any), sorted by longest uptime, even if they're not the longest uptime
```

- [BTCPay 1.0.7.2][] fixes minor issues discovered after last
  week's security release.

<!-- FIXME:harding to update tuesday -->

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable changes this week in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo],
[C-Lightning][c-lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LND][lnd repo],
[Rust-Lightning][rust-lightning repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1
repo], [Hardware Wallet Interface (HWI)][hwi repo],
[Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay Server][btcpay server repo],
[Bitcoin Improvement Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning
BOLTs][bolts repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core #20286][] removes the fields `addresses` and `reqSigs` from the
  responses of the RPCs `gettxout`, `getrawtransaction`,
  `decoderawtransaction`, `decodescript`, `gettransaction`, and the REST
  endpoints `/rest/tx`, `/rest/getutxos`, `/rest/block`. When a well-defined
  address exists, the responses now include the optional field `address`
  instead. The deprecated fields had been used in the context of bare multisig
  which has no substantial use on the network today. The deprecated fields can
  be output via the configuration option `-deprecatedrpc=addresses` until the

>   option will get removed in Bitcoin Core 23.0.

Reviewer 3: s/until the option will get removed/until the option is removed/

Reviewer 4: sgtm, changed

  unit test coverage for the current eviction protection logic.  Onion
  peers have historically been disadvantaged due to their higher latency
  relative to IPv4 and IPv6 peers, leading to users filing issues like
  [Bitcoin Core #11537][] and [Bitcoin Core #19500][].

  An initial response to the issue was made by [Bitcoin Core #19670][]
  (see [Newsletter #114][news114 core19670]), which began reserving
  slots for localhost peers as a proxy for inbound onion peers. However,
  manually configured Tor hidden services not using
  `-bind=addr[:port]=onion` could not be detected as inbound onion
  connections until the merge of [Bitcoin Core #19991][], which added a
  specific port for them (see [Newsletter #118][news118 core19991]).

  With the new logic, half of the protected slots are allocated to any
  onion and localhost peers, with onion peers receiving precedence over
  localhost peers.  Now that support for the I2P privacy network has
  been added to Bitcoin Core (see [Newsletter #139][news139 i2p]), a
  next step will be to extend eviction protection to I2P peers, as they
  generally have higher latency than onion peers.

> - [Eclair #1750][] removes support for Electrum and the corresponding 10k lines

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Eclair #1750][] removes support for Electrum and the corresponding 10,000 lines
```

>   of code. Eclair supported Electrum for mobile wallets, however a mobile wallet
>   optimized LN implementation, [Eclair-kmp][eclair-kmp github], is now recommended.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  of code. Electrum was previously used by Eclair for mobile wallets. However, a new
  implementation, [Eclair-kmp][eclair-kmp github], is now recommended for use by mobile wallets, making Electrum support for Eclair unnecessary.
```

- [Bitcoin Core #20286][] rpc: deprecate `addresses` and `reqSigs` from rpc outputs FIXME:Xekyo

- [Bitcoin Core #20197][] improves the diversity of peer connections by
  updating Bitcoin Core's inbound peer eviction logic to protect the
  longest-running onion peers from eviction. It also adds deterministic
  unit test coverage for the current eviction protection logic.  Onion
  peers have historically been disadvantaged due to their higher latency
  relative to IPv4 and IPv6 peers, leading to users filing issues like

>   [Bitcoin Core #11537][] and [Bitcoin Core #19500][].

Reviewer: I think this sentence belongs with the next paragraph, not this one. Also, the edits removed context that I think is helpful to understanding this sentence. If this description is too long, I'd suggest slimming down details further down, like in the second sentence of the second paragraph about `-bind`.

Reviewer 3: I think this description is still a bit long and could benefit from being slimmed down a little more. @jonatack - can you cut out the bits about `-bind` and try to get this down to two paragraphs?

Reviewer: Done.

Reviewer: (@harding thanks for adding references in the summary to our previous coverage of PRs 19670 and 19991!)

  of code. Eclair supported Electrum for mobile wallets, however a mobile wallet
  optimized LN implementation, [Eclair-kmp][eclair-kmp github], is now recommended.

- [Eclair #1751][] adds a `blocking` option to the `payinvoice` command which

>   causes calls to `payinvoice` to block until the payment is completed.

Reviewer 4: Wouldn't it just be the specific call encumbered with the `blocking` option that gets blocked?

Reviewer 4: Oh, I see, the subsequent calls also get held up until the one with the `blocking` option is resolved?
